PDF_GENERATION_FIX_GUIDE.md, before:

# PDF Generation Fix Guide

## Issues Fixed

The PDF generator had several critical issues that have been resolved:

### 1. **Empty Data Problem** ✅ FIXED

- **Issue**: PDF generation failed when no guest data was found for the selected date
- **Solution**: Added sample data fallback and broadened date search to include last 30 days
- **Result**: PDFs now generate successfully even with limited data

### 2. **Font and Encoding Issues** ✅ FIXED

- **Issue**: Persian text wasn't displaying properly in PDFs
- **Solution**: Improved font handling and encoding support
- **Result**: Better text rendering with English fallbacks for problematic characters

### 3. **Database Query Problems** ✅ FIXED

- **Issue**: Query was too restrictive, only looking for users created exactly on the selected date
- **Solution**: Expanded search to include last 30 days of guest registrations
- **Result**: More comprehensive data retrieval

### 4. **Error Handling** ✅ FIXED

- **Issue**: Poor error messages made debugging difficult
- **Solution**: Added comprehensive error handling and user-friendly messages
- **Result**: Clear feedback when things go wrong

### 5. **Frontend Data Display** ✅ FIXED

- **Issue**: Frontend showed mock/empty data instead of real guest information
- **Solution**: Connected frontend to actual guest data API
- **Result**: Real-time statistics and guest information display

## How to Test the PDF Generation

### Step 1: Create Sample Data

First, populate your database with sample guest data:

```bash
# Make sure you have the required dependencies
npm install uuid dotenv

# Run the sample data creation script
node create-sample-guests.js
```

This will create 8 sample guests with realistic data including:

- Afghan and Iranian guests
- Various stay counts and spending amounts
- Different activation statuses
- Recent registration dates

### Step 2: Start the Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

### Step 3: Test PDF Generation

#### Option A: Via Admin Dashboard

1. Navigate to `/admin` in your browser
2. Scroll to the "Quick Actions" section
3. Select a date (try different dates: today, yesterday, or any date in December 2024)
4. Click "دانلود PDF" to generate the report
5. Check your downloads folder for the generated PDF

#### Option B: Via Dedicated Reports Page

1. Navigate to `/admin/reports/daily-guests`
2. View real-time guest statistics for the selected date
3. Click "دانلود گزارش PDF" to generate the report
4. The PDF will be downloaded automatically

### Step 4: Verify the PDF Content

Open the generated PDF and verify it contains:

- ✅ Report header with "Daily Guest Report" title
- ✅ Date and generation time
- ✅ Summary statistics (total guests, active guests, total spent, etc.)
- ✅ Nationality breakdown table
- ✅ Detailed guest list with all information
- ✅ Proper formatting and layout

## Troubleshooting Common Issues

### Issue: "No data found for selected date"

**Solution**:

- The system now includes sample data as fallback
- Try selecting dates in December 2024 (where sample data exists)
- Or run `node create-sample-guests.js` to refresh sample data

### Issue: PDF downloads but appears empty

**Solution**:

- Check browser console for detailed error messages
- Verify the database connection is working
- Ensure you have proper authentication tokens
- Check network tab for API response status

### Issue: Persian text appears garbled

**Solution**:

- This is expected behavior - Persian text is converted to English for PDF compatibility
- All critical information is preserved in the conversion
- Consider adding custom fonts if full Persian support is needed

### Issue: "Authentication failed" error

**Solution**:

- Make sure you're logged in as an admin user
- Check if your session token has expired
- Try refreshing the page and logging in again

## API Endpoints Reference

### PDF Generation

- **Endpoint**: `GET /api/reports/daily-guests?date=YYYY-MM-DD`
- **Authentication**: Required (Bearer token)
- **Response**: PDF file download
- **Parameters**:
  - `date` (optional): Date in YYYY-MM-DD format (defaults to today)

### Guest Data (for frontend display)

- **Endpoint**: `GET /api/guests?startDate=ISO_DATE&endDate=ISO_DATE`
- **Authentication**: Required (Bearer token)
- **Response**: JSON array of guest objects
- **Parameters**:
  - `startDate` (optional): Filter guests registered after this date
  - `endDate` (optional): Filter guests registered before this date

## Sample Data Structure

The system now handles various guest data scenarios:

```javascript
{
  _id: "uuid",
  name: "احمد محمدی",           // Guest name (Persian supported)
  email: "ahmed@example.com",   // Email address
  role: "guest",                // User role
  nationality: "افغان",         // Nationality (Persian supported)
  totalStays: 5,                // Number of stays
  totalSpent: 25000,            // Total amount spent
  isActive: true,               // Active status
  createdAt: "2024-12-20T10:30:00Z",
  // ... other fields
}
```

## Technical Improvements Made

1. **Enhanced Error Handling**: Comprehensive try-catch blocks with meaningful error messages
2. **Better Data Validation**: Proper handling of MongoDB Decimal128 types
3. **Flexible Date Queries**: Expanded date range searching for better data coverage
4. **Improved PDF Output**: Better font handling and encoding support
5. **Real-time Frontend Updates**: Connected to actual data sources instead of mock data
6. **Authentication Flow**: Proper token handling and session management

## Browser Console Debugging

When testing, check the browser console for helpful debug information:

```javascript
// Look for these log messages:
"PDF generated successfully: X bytes";
"Connected to MongoDB";
"Created X sample guests";
"Error generating guest report: [detailed error]";
```

## File Changes Summary

- ✅ `app/api/reports/daily-guests/route.ts` - Fixed API logic and error handling
- ✅ `app/admin/reports/daily-guests/page.tsx` - Updated frontend to show real data
- ✅ `create-sample-guests.js` - New script for creating test data
- ✅ `app/admin/page.tsx` - Updated admin dashboard PDF generation

## Next Steps

If you want to customize the PDF generation further:

1. **Add Custom Fonts**: Install Persian font packages for better text support
2. **Extend Date Range**: Modify the query to search different time periods
3. **Add More Statistics**: Include additional metrics in the report
4. **Custom Branding**: Add your hotel's logo and branding to the PDF
5. **Email Integration**: Send PDFs directly via email instead of download

## Support

If you encounter any issues:

1. Check the browser console for error messages
2. Verify database connectivity
3. Ensure proper authentication
4. Try with the sample data script
5. Test with different dates to isolate the issue

The PDF generation system is now robust and should work reliably with both real and sample data!

Commit message:

refactor(admin): remove conversation and QA modules, update PDF layout to landscape
- Remove admin conversation management system (actions and page)
- Remove patient Q&A functionality (actions and page)
- Remove checkout page and sign-in page
- Fix PDF generation: change to landscape orientation and remove summary statistics
- Add new admin files: checkout module, layout, and navigator components
- Update PDF generation guide documentation

PDF_GENERATION_FIX_GUIDE.md, after:

# PDF Generation Fix Guide

## Issues Fixed

The PDF generator had several critical issues that have been resolved:

### 1. **Empty Data Problem** ✅ FIXED

- **Issue**: PDF generation failed when no guest data was found for the selected date
- **Solution**: Added sample data fallback and broadened date search to include last 30 days
- **Result**: PDFs now generate successfully even with limited data

### 2. **Font and Encoding Issues** ✅ FIXED

- **Issue**: Persian text wasn't displaying properly in PDFs
- **Solution**: Improved font handling and encoding support
- **Result**: Better text rendering with English fallbacks for problematic characters

### 3. **Database Query Problems** ✅ FIXED

- **Issue**: Query was too restrictive, only looking for users created exactly on the selected date
- **Solution**: Expanded search to include last 30 days of guest registrations
- **Result**: More comprehensive data retrieval

### 4. **Error Handling** ✅ FIXED

- **Issue**: Poor error messages made debugging difficult
- **Solution**: Added comprehensive error handling and user-friendly messages
- **Result**: Clear feedback when things go wrong

### 5. **Frontend Data Display** ✅ FIXED

- **Issue**: Frontend showed mock/empty data instead of real guest information
- **Solution**: Connected frontend to actual guest data API
- **Result**: Real-time statistics and guest information display

### 6. **PDF Layout and Content** ✅ UPDATED

- **Issue**: PDF was in portrait mode and included summary statistics section
- **Solution**: Changed to landscape orientation and removed summary statistics
- **Result**: Better use of space with nationality breakdown and detailed guest list only

## How to Test the PDF Generation

### Step 1: Create Sample Data

First, populate your database with sample guest data:

```bash
# Make sure you have the required dependencies
npm install uuid dotenv

# Run the sample data creation script
node create-sample-guests.js
```

This will create 8 sample guests with realistic data including:

- Afghan and Iranian guests
- Various stay counts and spending amounts
- Different activation statuses
- Recent registration dates

### Step 2: Start the Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

### Step 3: Test PDF Generation

#### Option A: Via Admin Dashboard

1. Navigate to `/admin` in your browser
2. Scroll to the "Quick Actions" section
3. Select a date (try different dates: today, yesterday, or any date in December 2024)
4. Click "دانلود PDF" to generate the report
5. Check your downloads folder for the generated PDF

#### Option B: Via Dedicated Reports Page

1. Navigate to `/admin/reports/daily-guests`
2. View real-time guest statistics for the selected date
3. Click "دانلود گزارش PDF" to generate the report
4. The PDF will be downloaded automatically

### Step 4: Verify the PDF Content

Open the generated PDF and verify it contains:

- ✅ Report header with "Daily Guest Report" title
- ✅ Date and generation time
- ✅ Nationality breakdown table
- ✅ Detailed guest list with all information
- ✅ Proper formatting and layout
- ✅ Landscape orientation for better readability

## Troubleshooting Common Issues

### Issue: "No data found for selected date"

**Solution**:

- The system now includes sample data as fallback
- Try selecting dates in December 2024 (where sample data exists)
- Or run `node create-sample-guests.js` to refresh sample data

### Issue: PDF downloads but appears empty

**Solution**:

- Check browser console for detailed error messages
- Verify the database connection is working
- Ensure you have proper authentication tokens
- Check network tab for API response status

### Issue: Persian text appears garbled

**Solution**:

- This is expected behavior - Persian text is converted to English for PDF compatibility
- All critical information is preserved in the conversion
- Consider adding custom fonts if full Persian support is needed

### Issue: "Authentication failed" error

**Solution**:

- Make sure you're logged in as an admin user
- Check if your session token has expired
- Try refreshing the page and logging in again

## API Endpoints Reference

### PDF Generation

- **Endpoint**: `GET /api/reports/daily-guests?date=YYYY-MM-DD`
- **Authentication**: Required (Bearer token)
- **Response**: PDF file download
- **Parameters**:
  - `date` (optional): Date in YYYY-MM-DD format (defaults to today)

### Guest Data (for frontend display)

- **Endpoint**: `GET /api/guests?startDate=ISO_DATE&endDate=ISO_DATE`
- **Authentication**: Required (Bearer token)
- **Response**: JSON array of guest objects
- **Parameters**:
  - `startDate` (optional): Filter guests registered after this date
  - `endDate` (optional): Filter guests registered before this date

## Sample Data Structure

The system now handles various guest data scenarios:

```javascript
{
  _id: "uuid",
  name: "احمد محمدی",           // Guest name (Persian supported)
  email: "ahmed@example.com",   // Email address
  role: "guest",                // User role
  nationality: "افغان",         // Nationality (Persian supported)
  totalStays: 5,                // Number of stays
  totalSpent: 25000,            // Total amount spent
  isActive: true,               // Active status
  createdAt: "2024-12-20T10:30:00Z",
  // ... other fields
}
```

## Technical Improvements Made

1. **Enhanced Error Handling**: Comprehensive try-catch blocks with meaningful error messages
2. **Better Data Validation**: Proper handling of MongoDB Decimal128 types
3. **Flexible Date Queries**: Expanded date range searching for better data coverage
4. **Improved PDF Output**: Better font handling and encoding support
5. **Real-time Frontend Updates**: Connected to actual data sources instead of mock data
6. **Authentication Flow**: Proper token handling and session management

## Browser Console Debugging

When testing, check the browser console for helpful debug information:

```javascript
// Look for these log messages:
"PDF generated successfully: X bytes";
"Connected to MongoDB";
"Created X sample guests";
"Error generating guest report: [detailed error]";
```

## File Changes Summary

- ✅ `app/api/reports/daily-guests/route.ts` - Fixed API logic and error handling
- ✅ `app/admin/reports/daily-guests/page.tsx` - Updated frontend to show real data
- ✅ `create-sample-guests.js` - New script for creating test data
- ✅ `app/admin/page.tsx` - Updated admin dashboard PDF generation

## Next Steps

If you want to customize the PDF generation further:

1. **Add Custom Fonts**: Install Persian font packages for better text support
2. **Extend Date Range**: Modify the query to search different time periods
3. **Add More Statistics**: Include additional metrics in the report
4. **Custom Branding**: Add your hotel's logo and branding to the PDF
5. **Email Integration**: Send PDFs directly via email instead of download

## Support

If you encounter any issues:

1. Check the browser console for error messages
2. Verify database connectivity
3. Ensure proper authentication
4. Try with the sample data script
5. Test with different dates to isolate the issue

The PDF generation system is now robust and should work reliably with both real and sample data!
